inline JS:

```
<body onload="alert('Hello')">
</body>
```

internal JS:

```
<body>
<script type="text/javascript">
alert("Hello");
</script>
</body>
```

external JS:
the script is loaded when the browser gets to that part of the html, so we will place the stylesheet in the <head></head> in order that it will effect whatever the page contains. but we cant execute JS commands on elements that don't yet exist so it will do nothing in the <head> there for we will put it at the end of the page.

```
<script src="index.js"></script>
```

the DOM turns the page into a flow chart, so we start with the <html> that has two children the <head> and the <body>. the <head> contains <meta>, <title> and <link>. the <body> contains the ...elements and the <script>. to see a representation of this install [HTML tree](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/html-tree-generator/dlbbmhhaadfnbbdnjalilhdakfmiffeg/related).
a way of seeing this tree is by going to the Console and typing "document;", this will give us the full html document tree. we can navigate to specific elements of the document, for example "document.firstElementChild;" gos to the <html> and its .firstElementChild; is the <head>, and its .firstElementChild; is the <meta> and so on and so forth. so to go into the first element of the <body> will go to "document.firstElementChild.lastElementChild.firstElementChild;".
we can manipulate the <html> by giving elements a new value:

```
var heading = document.firstElementChild.lastElementChild.firstElementChild;
heading.innerHTML = "good by";
```

now the <h1> element that is the first element in the body changed to "good by"
this works with all of the content in the <h1> including other html tags, so "heading.innerHTML="<em>good by</em>";" will emphasize the text.
the same can be done with the style:

```
heading.style.color = "red";
```

in the same way we can interact with the functionality of the page, for example simulate a click on a input checkbox:

```
document.querySelector("input").click();
```

will click the first input element in the page.
or in the case of a <ul> in the <body>, will edit the third <li> like this:

```
document.getElementsByTagName("LI")[2].innerHTML="Nachliel";
```

a more powerful toll is the querySelector(), in it we can select elements like we do in a css file, by the element name, class and id.
the querySelector() gives the first element that matches the specification, if we wat to get all of the matching elements we will use querySelectorAll(). for example if we have a <ul id="list"> with <li class="item">'s :

```
document.querySelectorAll("#list .item");
```

or

```
document.querySelector(".btn").style.backgroundColor="yellow";
```

**Separation of Concerns**
we try to keep the page elements in the HTML, the styling in the CSS and the reactivity in the JS. if we want reactive styling we can do this by creating CSS styles for a set of classes and with the JS add and remove thous classes from the HTML elements.
so to add the "invisible" class to a button will do:

```
document.querySelector("btn").classList.add("invisible");
```

or to remove a class:

```
document.querySelector("btn").classList.remove("invisible");
```

**Attributes**
we can manipulate the attributes of the elements with JS, so if we want to find out what the attributes of a <a> are and chang them we will do this:

```
document.querySelector("a").attributes; //NamedNodeMap {0: href, href: href, length: 1}
document.querySelector("a").getAttribute("href"); //'https://www.google.com"
document.querySelector("a").setAttribute("href","https://www.bing.com");
```
